=pod

=head1 NAME

FLTK::AssociationType - Base class for the association type

=head1 Description

Base class for the association type.

FLTK allows you to attach any kind of user data to a widget. This data is
automatically freed when the widget to which it is attached is destroyed.
Internally an association table is used to connect the widget pointer with the
data pointer that is why all the functions concerned with this feature contain
"association" in their name. The advantage of this is that no space is taken
on widgets that do not contain the data (or that have the "default value"),
and that the destructor code is not linked in if the association is not used.

To be able to associate data and to be able to have a customized way of
freeing the data you need to derive from this class and then create an
instance of that class. With the pointer to that instance the type of the data
is identified.

possible uses:

=over 8

=item assign key shortcuts to certain widgets

=item assign a tooltip to some widgets

=item assign a help-index to widgets

=item assign a unique identifier to widgets to remote controlling

=item assign additional layouting data for new container widgets

=item assign data needed by typesafe callback mechanisms

=item assign all kind of data not always required within a widget / each widget

=back 

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2008-2010 by Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of
L<The Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0>.
See the F<LICENSE> file included with this distribution or
L<notes on the Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes>
for clarification.

When separated from the distribution, all original POD documentation is
covered by the
L<Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode>.
See the
L<clarification of the CCA-SA3.0|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/>.


=for git $Id: AssociationType.xs c629eeb 2010-09-27 04:12:30Z sanko@cpan.org $

=cut
