=pod

=head1 NAME

FLTK::ClockOutput - Base class of FLTK::Clock

=head1 Description

Base class of L<C<Clock>|FLTK::Clock>, this one does not move, it just
displays whatever time  you set into it.

L<C<type()>|FLTK::Widget/"type"> may be set to C<SQUARE>, C<ROUND>, or
C<DIGITAL> (nyi).

=head1 Functions

=head2 C<ANALOG>
X<ANALOG>

=over

=item C<my $type = $clockoutput-E<gt>ANALOG( );>X<my_type_clockoutput_E_gt_ANALOG_>



=for hackers xs/ClockOutput.xs line 54

=back

=head2 C<DIGITAL>
X<DIGITAL>

=over

=item C<my $type = $clockoutput-E<gt>DIGITAL( );>X<my_type_clockoutput_E_gt_DIGITAL_>



=for hackers xs/ClockOutput.xs line 62

=back

=head2 C<ROUND>
X<ROUND>

=over

=item C<my $type = $clockoutput-E<gt>ROUND( );>X<my_type_clockoutput_E_gt_ROUND_>



=for hackers xs/ClockOutput.xs line 58

=back

=head2 C<SQUARE>
X<SQUARE>

=over

=item C<my $type = $clockoutput-E<gt>SQUARE( );>X<my_type_clockoutput_E_gt_SQUARE_>



=for hackers xs/ClockOutput.xs line 50

=back

=head2 C<hour>
X<hour>

=over

=item C<my $h = $clockoutput-E<gt>hour( );>X<my_h_clockoutput_E_gt_hour_>

Return the hour sent to the last call to L<C<value()>|/"value">.

=for hackers xs/ClockOutput.xs line 115

=back

=head2 C<minute>
X<minute>

=over

=item C<my $m = $clockoutput-E<gt>minute( );>X<my_m_clockoutput_E_gt_minute_>

Return the minute sent to the last call to L<C<value()>|/"value">.

=for hackers xs/ClockOutput.xs line 119

=back

=head2 C<new>
X<new>

=over

=item C<my $self = $clockoutput-E<gt>new( $x, $y, $w, $h, $label );>X<my_self_clockoutput_E_gt_new_x_y_w_h_label_>



=for hackers xs/ClockOutput.xs line 35

=back

=head2 C<second>
X<second>

=over

=item C<my $s = $clockoutput-E<gt>second( );>X<my_s_clockoutput_E_gt_second_>

Return the second sent to the last call to L<C<value()>|/"value">.

=pod 

=for hackers xs/ClockOutput.xs line 123

=back

=head2 C<value>
X<value>

=over

=item C<$clockoutput-E<gt>value( $time );>X<_clockoutput_E_gt_value_time_>

Set the clock to a Unix timestamp. The value is passed through the
L<C<localtime()>|/"localtime"> function and used to get the hour, minute, and
second.

=for hackers xs/ClockOutput.xs line 78

=item C<$clockoutput-E<gt>value( $hour, $minute, $second );>X<_clockoutput_E_gt_value_hour_minute_second_>

Set the hour, minute, and second to display. The hour is effectively taken
modulus 12 and the minute and second modulus 60 to figure out where to place
the hands. Redraw happens only if different.

Note that this does not set the L<C<value()>|/"value">; ...without the date,
it really can't.

=for hackers xs/ClockOutput.xs line 84

=item C<my $time = $clockoutput-E<gt>value( );>X<my_time_clockoutput_E_gt_value_>

Return the last Unix timestamp the clock was set to.

=for hackers xs/ClockOutput.xs line 93

=back

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2008-2010 by Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of
L<The Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0>.
See the F<LICENSE> file included with this distribution or
L<notes on the Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes>
for clarification.

When separated from the distribution, all original POD documentation is
covered by the
L<Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode>.
See the
L<clarification of the CCA-SA3.0|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/>.


=for git $Id: ClockOutput.xs 7483df2 2011-04-09 05:42:22Z sanko@cpan.org $

=cut
