=pod

=head1 NAME

FLTK::CycleButton - Popup list of items that the user can choose one of

=head1 Description

This widget lets the user select one of a set of choices by clicking on it.
Each click cycles to the next choice. Holding down any shift key or using the
middle or right mouse button cycles backwards.

Notice that the number of items can be 2. In this case this widget serves the
common purpose of a "toggle" button that shows the current on/off state by
changing it's label.

This is a subclass of L<Menu|FLTK::Menu>. The possible states are defined by
using L<C<Menu::add()>|FLTK::Menu/"add"> or other methods that define the menu
items. You can also put a different callback on each item. Or you can replace
this widget's callback with your own and use
L<C<value()>|FLTK::Widget/"value"> to get the index of the current setting.
Items that are not L<C<visible()>|FLTK::Widget/"visible"> or are not
L<C<active()>|FLTK::Widget/"active"> are skipped by the cycling.

If you set L<C<buttonbox()>|/"buttonbox"> to C<NO_BOX> then you must define
your items to draw identical-sized and fully opaque images, so that drawing
one completely obscures any other one. This was done to avoid blinking when
drawing "artistic" user interfaces where all the entire button is an image.

=head1 Functions

=head2 C<new>
X<new>

=over

=item C<my $self = $cyclebutton-E<gt>new( $x, $y, $w, $h, $label );>X<my_self_cyclebutton_E_gt_new_x_y_w_h_label_>

Creates a new C<FLTK::CycleButton> object. Obviously.

=pod 

=for hackers xs/CycleButton.xs line 52

=back

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2008-2010 by Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of
L<The Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0>.
See the F<LICENSE> file included with this distribution or
L<notes on the Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes>
for clarification.

When separated from the distribution, all original POD documentation is
covered by the
L<Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode>.
See the
L<clarification of the CCA-SA3.0|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/>.


=for git $Id: CycleButton.xs c629eeb 2010-09-27 04:12:30Z sanko@cpan.org $

=cut
