=pod

=head1 NAME

FLTK::Dial - Rotating value control

=head1 Description

The L<FLTK::Dial|FLTK::Dial> widget provides a circular dial to control a
single floating point value.

Use type() to change how it draws:

=over 

=item L<C<NORMAL>|/"NORMAL">
Draws a normal dial with a knob.

=item L<C<LINE>|/"LINE">
Draws a dial with a line.

=item L<C<FILL>|/"FILL">
Draws a dial with a filled arc.

=back 

You can change the L<C<box()>|FLTK::Widget/"box"> from the default of
C<OVAL_BOX> to draw different borders. The L<C<box()>|FLTK::Widget/"box"> is
filled with L<C<color()>|FLTK::color/"color">, the moving part is filled with
L<C<selection_color()>|FLTK::color/"selection_color">, and the border around
the moving part is set by L<C<textcolor()>|FLTK::color/"textcolor">.

=head1 Functions

=head2 C<angle1>
X<angle1>

=over

=item C<my $a1 = $dial-E<gt>angle1( );>X<my_a1_dial_E_gt_angle1_>

See L<C<angles()>|/"angles">.

=for hackers xs/Dial.xs line 77

=item C<my $a1 = $dial-E<gt>angle1( $a );>X<my_a1_dial_E_gt_angle1_a_>

See L<C<angles()>|/"angles">.

=for hackers xs/Dial.xs line 81

=back

=head2 C<angle2>
X<angle2>

=over

=item C<my $a2 = $dial-E<gt>angle2( );>X<my_a2_dial_E_gt_angle2_>

See L<C<angles()>|/"angles">.

=for hackers xs/Dial.xs line 95

=item C<my $a2 = $dial-E<gt>angle2( $b );>X<my_a2_dial_E_gt_angle2_b_>

See L<C<angles()>|/"angles">.

=for hackers xs/Dial.xs line 99

=back

=head2 C<angles>
X<angles>

=over

=item C<$dial-E<gt>angles( $a, $b );>X<_dial_E_gt_angles_a_b_>

Sets the angles used for the minimum and maximum values. The default values
are C<45> and C<315> (C<0> degrees is straight down and the angles progress
clockwise). Normally C<ANGLE1> is less than C<ANGLE2>, but if you reverse them
the dial moves counter-clockwise.

=pod 

=for hackers xs/Dial.xs line 113

=back

=head2 C<new>
X<new>

=over

=item C<my $dial = $dial-E<gt>new( $x, $y, $w, $h, $label );>X<my_dial_dial_E_gt_new_x_y_w_h_label_>

Creates a new C<FLTK::Dial> object.

=for hackers xs/Dial.xs line 58

=back

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2008-2010 by Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of
L<The Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0>.
See the F<LICENSE> file included with this distribution or
L<notes on the Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes>
for clarification.

When separated from the distribution, all original POD documentation is
covered by the
L<Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode>.
See the
L<clarification of the CCA-SA3.0|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/>.


=for git $Id: Dial.xs c629eeb 2010-09-27 04:12:30Z sanko@cpan.org $

=cut
