=pod

=head1 NAME

FLTK::FloatInput - Subclass of FLTK::NumericInput

=head1 Description

A subclass of L<NumericInput|FLTK::NumericInput> that only allows the user to
type floating point numbers (sign, digits, decimal point, more digits, 'E' or
'e', sign, digits), or hex constants that start with "0x". This is done by
overriding the replace() method. Besides editing the text the user can use the
up/down arrow keys to change the digits.

You may want a L<ValueInput|FLTK::ValueInput> widget instead. It has up/down
buttons (what is called a "Spinner" in some toolkits).

If you change L<C<when()>|FLTK::Widget/"when"> to C<WHEN_ENTER_KEY>, the
callback is only done when the user hits the up/down arrow keys or when the
user types the Enter key. This may be more useful than the default setting of
C<WHEN_CHANGED> which can make the callback happen when partially-edited
numbers are in the field.

The L<C<type()>|FLTK::Widget/"type"> can either be either
C<FLTK::FloatInput::FLOAT> or C<FLTK::FloatInput::INT>. Setting it to C<INT>
makes this act like the L<IntInput|FLTK::IntInput> subclass.

=head1 Functions

=head2 C<fvalue()>
X<fvalue()>

=over

=item C<my $float = $floatinput-E<gt>fvalue()( );>X<my_float_floatinput_E_gt_fvalue_>

Convert the string to a double using C<strtod()>.

=pod 

=for hackers xs/FloatInput.xs line 80

=back

=head2 C<ivalue>
X<ivalue>

=over

=item C<my $int = $floatinput-E<gt>ivalue( );>X<my_int_floatinput_E_gt_ivalue_>

Convert the string to an integer, using C<int(strtol())>.

=for hackers xs/FloatInput.xs line 72

=back

=head2 C<lvalue()>
X<lvalue()>

=over

=item C<my $long = $floatinput-E<gt>lvalue()( );>X<my_long_floatinput_E_gt_lvalue_>

Convert the string to a long using C<strtol()>.

=for hackers xs/FloatInput.xs line 76

=back

=head2 C<new>
X<new>

=over

=item C<my $input = $floatinput-E<gt>new( $x, $y, $w, $h, $label );>X<my_input_floatinput_E_gt_new_x_y_w_h_label_>

Creates a new C<FLTK::FloatInput> object.

=for hackers xs/FloatInput.xs line 57

=back

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2008-2010 by Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of
L<The Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0>.
See the F<LICENSE> file included with this distribution or
L<notes on the Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes>
for clarification.

When separated from the distribution, all original POD documentation is
covered by the
L<Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode>.
See the
L<clarification of the CCA-SA3.0|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/>.


=for git $Id: FLTK.xs 0f9e351 2011-07-02 22:44:19Z sanko@cpan.org $

=for git $Id: FloatInput.xs 7483df2 2011-04-09 05:42:22Z sanko@cpan.org $

=cut
