=pod

=head1 NAME

FLTK::HelpDialog - Help dialog with basic HTML viewing capabilities

=head1 Description

Uses L<HelpView|FLTK::HelpView> to display basic HTML in a standard dialog.

=head1 Functions

=head2 C<destroy>
X<destroy>

=over

=item C<$helpdialog-E<gt>destroy( );>X<_helpdialog_E_gt_destroy_>

Destroy the L<HelpDialog|FLTK::HelpDialog>.

=for hackers xs/HelpDialog.xs line 49

=back

=head2 C<h>
X<h>

=over

=item C<my $h = $helpdialog-E<gt>h( );>X<my_h_helpdialog_E_gt_h_>

Returns the vertical size of the help dialog.

=for hackers xs/HelpDialog.xs line 61

=back

=head2 C<hide>
X<hide>

=over

=item C<$helpdialog-E<gt>hide( );>X<_helpdialog_E_gt_hide_>

Hides the L<HelpDialog|FLTK::HelpDialog>.

=for hackers xs/HelpDialog.xs line 91

=back

=head2 C<load>
X<load>

=over

=item C<$helpdialog-E<gt>load( $filename );>X<_helpdialog_E_gt_load_filename_>

Load the specified HTML file into the L<HelpView|FLTK::HelpView>.

=for hackers xs/HelpDialog.xs line 107

=back

=head2 C<new>
X<new>

=over

=item C<my $hd = $helpdialog-E<gt>new( );>X<my_hd_helpdialog_E_gt_new_>

Creates a new L<HelpDialog|FLTK::HelpDialog>.

=for hackers xs/HelpDialog.xs line 40

=back

=head2 C<position>
X<position>

=over

=item C<$helpdialog-E<gt>position( $x, $y );>X<_helpdialog_E_gt_position_x_y_>

Move the L<HelpDialog|FLTK::HelpDialog> to a new position.

=for hackers xs/HelpDialog.xs line 116

=back

=head2 C<resize>
X<resize>

=over

=item C<$helpdialog-E<gt>resize( $x, $y, $w, $h );>X<_helpdialog_E_gt_resize_x_y_w_h_>

Set the screen position and size of the L<HelpDialog|FLTK::HelpDialog> of the
dialog.

=for hackers xs/HelpDialog.xs line 125

=back

=head2 C<show>
X<show>

=over

=item C<$helpdialog-E<gt>show( );>X<_helpdialog_E_gt_show_>

Shows the main L<HelpDialog|FLTK::HelpDialog>'s L<window|FLTK::Window>.

=for hackers xs/HelpDialog.xs line 95

=back

=head2 C<textsize>
X<textsize>

=over

=item C<$helpdialog-E<gt>textsize( $size );>X<_helpdialog_E_gt_textsize_size_>

Sets the default text size for the help view.

=for hackers xs/HelpDialog.xs line 135

=item C<my $size = $helpdialog-E<gt>textsize( );>X<my_size_helpdialog_E_gt_textsize_>

Gets the default text size for the help view.

=for hackers xs/HelpDialog.xs line 139

=back

=head2 C<topline>
X<topline>

=over

=item C<$helpdialog-E<gt>topline( $string );>X<_helpdialog_E_gt_topline_string_>

Sets the top line in the L<HelpView|FLTK::HelpView> widget to the named line.

=for hackers xs/HelpDialog.xs line 153

=item C<$helpdialog-E<gt>topline( $index );>X<_helpdialog_E_gt_topline_index_>

Sets the top line in the L<HelpView|FLTK::HelpView> widget to the I<index>th line.

=for hackers xs/HelpDialog.xs line 157

=back

=head2 C<value>
X<value>

=over

=item C<$helpdialog-E<gt>value( $string );>X<_helpdialog_E_gt_value_string_>

Sets the current buffer to the string provided and reformats the text.

=for hackers xs/HelpDialog.xs line 170

=item C<my $string = $helpdialog-E<gt>value( );>X<my_string_helpdialog_E_gt_value_>

Returns the current buffer.

=for hackers xs/HelpDialog.xs line 174

=back

=head2 C<visible>
X<visible>

=over

=item C<my $visible = $helpdialog-E<gt>visible( );>X<my_visible_helpdialog_E_gt_visible_>

Returns C<1> if the L<HelpDialog|FLTK::HelpDialog> window is visible.

=pod 

=for hackers xs/HelpDialog.xs line 188

=back

=head2 C<w>
X<w>

=over

=item C<my $w = $helpdialog-E<gt>w( );>X<my_w_helpdialog_E_gt_w_>

Returns the horizontal size of the help dialog.

=for hackers xs/HelpDialog.xs line 65

=back

=head2 C<x>
X<x>

=over

=item C<my $x = $helpdialog-E<gt>x( );>X<my_x_helpdialog_E_gt_x_>

Returns the position of the help dialog.

=for hackers xs/HelpDialog.xs line 69

=back

=head2 C<y>
X<y>

=over

=item C<my $y = $helpdialog-E<gt>y( );>X<my_y_helpdialog_E_gt_y_>

Returns the position of the help dialog.

=for hackers xs/HelpDialog.xs line 73

=back

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2008-2010 by Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of
L<The Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0>.
See the F<LICENSE> file included with this distribution or
L<notes on the Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes>
for clarification.

When separated from the distribution, all original POD documentation is
covered by the
L<Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode>.
See the
L<clarification of the CCA-SA3.0|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/>.


=for git $Id: HelpDialog.xs c629eeb 2010-09-27 04:12:30Z sanko@cpan.org $

=cut
