=pod

=head1 NAME

FLTK::HelpView - Basic HTML viewer

=head1 Description

Most HTML 2.0 elements are supported, as well as a primitive implementation of
tables. GIF, JPEG, and PNG images are displayed inline.

=head1 Functions

=head2 C<directory>
X<directory>

=over

=item C<my $dir = $helpview-E<gt>directory( );>X<my_dir_helpview_E_gt_directory_>



=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 50

=back

=head2 C<filename>
X<filename>

=over

=item C<my $file = $helpview-E<gt>filename( );>X<my_file_helpview_E_gt_filename_>



=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 54

=back

=head2 C<find>
X<find>

=over

=item C<my $ok = $helpview-E<gt>find( $string, $start );>X<my_ok_helpview_E_gt_find_string_start_>

Find the specified string in the current help text. This is a plain text
search.

Returns C<0> on success. Returns C<-1> on failure.

=pod 

=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 210

=back

=head2 C<leftline>
X<leftline>

=over

=item C<$helpview-E<gt>leftline( $col );>X<_helpview_E_gt_leftline_col_>

Set the left position.

=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 174

=item C<my $col = $helpview-E<gt>leftline( );>X<my_col_helpview_E_gt_leftline_>

Get the left position.

=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 178

=back

=head2 C<load>
X<load>

=over

=item C<my $result = $helpview-E<gt>load( $filename );>X<my_result_helpview_E_gt_load_filename_>

Load the specified file. Returns C<0> on success and C<-1> on error

=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 66

=back

=head2 C<new>
X<new>

=over

=item C<my $hv = $helpview-E<gt>new( $x, $y, $w, $h, $label );>X<my_hv_helpview_E_gt_new_x_y_w_h_label_>

Creates a new L<HelpView|FLTK::HelpView>.

=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 41

=back

=head2 C<size>
X<size>

=over

=item C<my $pixels = $helpview-E<gt>size( );>X<my_pixels_helpview_E_gt_size_>



=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 75

=back

=head2 C<textcolor>
X<textcolor>

=over

=item C<$helpview-E<gt>textcolor( $color );>X<_helpview_E_gt_textcolor_color_>



=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 84

=item C<my $color = $helpview-E<gt>textcolor( );>X<my_color_helpview_E_gt_textcolor_>



=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 88

=back

=head2 C<textfont>
X<textfont>

=over

=item C<$helpview-E<gt>textfont( $font );>X<_helpview_E_gt_textfont_font_>



=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 102

=item C<my $font = $helpview-E<gt>textfont( );>X<my_font_helpview_E_gt_textfont_>



=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 106

=back

=head2 C<textsize>
X<textsize>

=over

=item C<$helpview-E<gt>textsize( $size );>X<_helpview_E_gt_textsize_size_>



=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 120

=item C<my $size = $helpview-E<gt>textsize( );>X<my_size_helpview_E_gt_textsize_>



=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 124

=back

=head2 C<title>
X<title>

=over

=item C<my $str = $helpview-E<gt>title( );>X<my_str_helpview_E_gt_title_>



=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 138

=back

=head2 C<topline>
X<topline>

=over

=item C<$helpview-E<gt>topline( $string );>X<_helpview_E_gt_topline_string_>

Sets the top line to the named line.

=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 147

=item C<$helpview-E<gt>topline( $index );>X<_helpview_E_gt_topline_index_>

Sets the top line to the I<index>th line.

=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 151

=item C<my $num = $helpview-E<gt>topline( );>X<my_num_helpview_E_gt_topline_>

Retusn the index of the current top line.

=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 155

=back

=head2 C<value>
X<value>

=over

=item C<$helpview-E<gt>value( $string );>X<_helpview_E_gt_value_string_>

Set the help text directly.

=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 192

=item C<my $string = $helpview-E<gt>value( );>X<my_string_helpview_E_gt_value_>

Get the current help text.

=for hackers xs/HelpView.xs line 196

=back

=head1 Subclassing

Note that L<C<HelpView>|FLTK::HelpView> may not be subclassed like every other
widget in FLTK because fltk::HelpView::draw( ) and
fltk::HelpView::handle( ... ) are private. If I subclass them, I lose basic
functionality because I cannot access those functions from a child class.

This is a "bug" and I'll report it when I have the time.

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2008-2010 by Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of
L<The Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0>.
See the F<LICENSE> file included with this distribution or
L<notes on the Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes>
for clarification.

When separated from the distribution, all original POD documentation is
covered by the
L<Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode>.
See the
L<clarification of the CCA-SA3.0|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/>.


=for git $Id: HelpView.xs c629eeb 2010-09-27 04:12:30Z sanko@cpan.org $

=cut
