=pod

=head1 NAME

FLTK::MenuWindow - Temporary, unmovable popup window

=head1 Description

This is the window type used by L<Menu|FLTK::Menu> to make the pop-ups, and
for tooltip popups. It will send special information to the window server to
indicate that the windows are temporary, won't move, and should not have any
decorations.

On X this turns on C<override_redirect> and save-under and thus avoids the
window manager.

=head1 Functions

=head2 C<clear_overlay>
X<clear_overlay>

=over

=item C<$menuwindow-E<gt>clear_overlay( );>X<_menuwindow_E_gt_clear_overlay_>

Tells FLTK to not try to use the overlay hardware planes. This is disabled
except on Irix. On Irix you will have to call this if you want to draw colored
images in the popup.

=pod 

=for hackers xs/MenuWindow.xs line 105

=back

=head2 C<default_style>
X<default_style>

=over

=item C<my $style = $menuwindow-E<gt>default_style( );>X<my_style_menuwindow_E_gt_default_style_>

The default style sets L<C<box()>|FLTK::Widget/"box"> to C<UP_BOX>. This box
is used around all popup menus.

=for hackers xs/MenuWindow.xs line 65

=item C<$menuwindow-E<gt>default_style( $style );>X<_menuwindow_E_gt_default_style_style_>

Set the style.

=for hackers xs/MenuWindow.xs line 70

=back

=head2 C<new>
X<new>

=over

=item C<my $self = $menuwindow-E<gt>new( $x, $y, $w, $h, $label );>X<my_self_menuwindow_E_gt_new_x_y_w_h_label_>



=for hackers xs/MenuWindow.xs line 37

=item C<my $self = $menuwindow-E<gt>new( $w, $h, $label );>X<my_self_menuwindow_E_gt_new_w_h_label_>



=for hackers xs/MenuWindow.xs line 41

=back

=head2 C<overlay>
X<overlay>

=over

=item C<my $can_haz_overlay = $menuwindow-E<gt>overlay( );>X<my_can_haz_overlay_menuwindow_E_gt_overlay_>



=for hackers xs/MenuWindow.xs line 87

=back

=head2 C<set_overlay>
X<set_overlay>

=over

=item C<$menuwindow-E<gt>set_overlay( );>X<_menuwindow_E_gt_set_overlay_>

Undoes L<C<clear_overlay()>|FLTK::MenuWindow/"clear_overlay">.

=for hackers xs/MenuWindow.xs line 96

=back

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2008-2010 by Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of
L<The Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0>.
See the F<LICENSE> file included with this distribution or
L<notes on the Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes>
for clarification.

When separated from the distribution, all original POD documentation is
covered by the
L<Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode>.
See the
L<clarification of the CCA-SA3.0|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/>.


=for git $Id: MenuWindow.xs 7483df2 2011-04-09 05:42:22Z sanko@cpan.org $

=cut
