=pod

=head1 NAME

FLTK::Output - One-line text output

=head1 Description

This widget displays a piece of text. When you set the
L<C<value()>|FLTK::Widget/"value">, it does a C<strcpy()> to it's own storage,
which is useful for program-generated values. You can also call
L<C<static_value( )>|FLTK::Widget/"static_value"> if you know the original
text will not be deleted. The text may contain any characters except C<\0>.
Any control characters less than 32 will display in C<^X> notation. Other
characters are drawn without any changes.

The user may select portions of the text using the mouse and paste the
contents into other fields or programs.

=head1 Functions

=head2 C<default_style>
X<default_style>

=over

=item C<my $style = $output-E<gt>default_style( );>X<my_style_output_E_gt_default_style_>

L<Output|FLTK::Output> has it's own style so the color can be set to gray like
Motif-style programs want.

=for hackers xs/Output.xs line 64

=item C<$output-E<gt>default_style( $style );>X<_output_E_gt_default_style_style_>

Set the style.

=pod 

=for hackers xs/Output.xs line 69

=back

=head2 C<new>
X<new>

=over

=item C<my $output = $output-E<gt>new( $x, $y, $w, $h, $label );>X<my_output_output_E_gt_new_x_y_w_h_label_>

Creates a new C<FLTK::Output> object.

=for hackers xs/Output.xs line 49

=back

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2008-2010 by Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of
L<The Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0>.
See the F<LICENSE> file included with this distribution or
L<notes on the Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes>
for clarification.

When separated from the distribution, all original POD documentation is
covered by the
L<Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode>.
See the
L<clarification of the CCA-SA3.0|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/>.


=for git $Id: Output.xs 7483df2 2011-04-09 05:42:22Z sanko@cpan.org $

=cut
