=pod

=head1 NAME

FLTK::PixelType - Describes how colors are stored in a pixel

=head1 Description

Enumeration describing how colors are stored in an array of bytes that is a
pixel. This is used as an argument for L<drawimage()|FLTK::Image/"drawimage">,
L<readimage()|FLTK::Image/"readimage">, and L<FLTK::Image|FLTK::Image>.

Notice that the order of the bytes in memory of ARGB32 or RGB32 is C<a,r,g,b>
on a little-endian machine and C<b,g,r,a> on a big-endian machine. Due to the
use of these types by Windows, this is often the fastest form of data, if you
have a choice. To convert an L<FLTK::Color|FLTK::Color> to RGB32, shift it
right by 8 (for ARGB32 shift the alpha left 24 and or it in).

More types may be added in the future. The set is as minimal as possible while
still covering the types I have actually encountered.

=head1 Functions

=head2 C<depth>
X<depth>

=over

=item C<my $d = FLTK::depth( $type );>X<my_d_FLTK_depth_type_>

Turn a L<PixelType|FLTK::PixelType> into the number of bytes needed to hold a
pixel.

=pod 

Import this function with the C<:pixeltype> tag.

=for hackers xs/PixelType.xs line 114

=back

=head1 PixelTypes

These are the currently supported types:

=over 

=item * C<MASK>

1 byte os inverted mask, filled with current color

=item * C<MONO>

1 byte of gray scale

=item * C<RGBx>

bytes in C<r,g,b,a,r,g,b,a...> order, C<a> byte is ignored

=item * C<RGB>

bytes in C<r,g,b,r,g,b...> order

=item * C<RGBA>

bytes in C<r,g,b,a,r,g,b,a...> order

=item * C<RGB32>

32-bit words containing C<0xaarrggbb> (aa is ignored)

=item * C<ARGB32>

32-bit words containing C<0xaarrggbb>

=item * C<RGBM>

Unpremultiplied bytes in C<r,g,b,a> order. Not yet implemented, acts like
RGBA.

=item * C<MRGB32>

Unpremultiplied <0xaarrggbb>. Not yet implemented, acts like ARGB32.

=back 

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2008-2010 by Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of
L<The Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0>.
See the F<LICENSE> file included with this distribution or
L<notes on the Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes>
for clarification.

When separated from the distribution, all original POD documentation is
covered by the
L<Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode>.
See the
L<clarification of the CCA-SA3.0|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/>.


=for git $Id: PixelType.xs c629eeb 2010-09-27 04:12:30Z sanko@cpan.org $

=cut
