=pod

=head1 NAME

FLTK::ProgressBar - Widget meant to display progress of some operation

=head1 Description

L<ProgressBar|FLTK::ProgressBar> is an indicator with a bar that fills up and
text showing the job being done and expected time to go.
L<C<maximum( )>|FLTK::ProgressBar/"maximum"> and optionally
L<C<minimum( )>|FLTK::ProgressBar/"minimum"> values should be set, and for
each step of operation L<C<step( )>|FLTK::ProgressBar/"step"> should be
called.

=head1 Functions

=head2 C<maximum>
X<maximum>

=over

=item C<$progressbar-E<gt>maximum( $maximum );>X<_progressbar_E_gt_maximum_maximum_>

Set maximum value for the progess widget. It should represent operation
length.

=for hackers xs/ProgressBar.xs line 108

=item C<my $min = $progressbar-E<gt>maximum( );>X<my_min_progressbar_E_gt_maximum_>

Returns maximum value for the progress widget.

=for hackers xs/ProgressBar.xs line 113

=back

=head2 C<minimum>
X<minimum>

=over

=item C<$progressbar-E<gt>minimum( $minimum );>X<_progressbar_E_gt_minimum_minimum_>

Set minimal value for the progess widget.

=for hackers xs/ProgressBar.xs line 88

=item C<my $min = $progressbar-E<gt>minimum( );>X<my_min_progressbar_E_gt_minimum_>

Returns theminimal value for the progress widget.

=for hackers xs/ProgressBar.xs line 92

=back

=head2 C<new>
X<new>

=over

=item C<my $self = $progressbar-E<gt>new( $x, $y, $w, $h, $label );>X<my_self_progressbar_E_gt_new_x_y_w_h_label_>

Creates a new C<FLTK::ProgressBar> object.

=for hackers xs/ProgressBar.xs line 36

=back

=head2 C<position>
X<position>

=over

=item C<$progressbar-E<gt>position( $value );>X<_progressbar_E_gt_position_value_>

Set position of bar in progress widget and redraw it. If C<$value> goes out of
L<C<minimum( )>|FLTK::ProgressBar/"minimum"> and
L<C<maximum( )>|FLTK::ProgressBar/"maximum"> bounds, it will be ignored.

=for hackers xs/ProgressBar.xs line 129

=item C<my $min = $progressbar-E<gt>position( );>X<my_min_progressbar_E_gt_position_>

Returns position value for the progress widget.

=for hackers xs/ProgressBar.xs line 135

=back

=head2 C<range>
X<range>

=over

=item C<$progressbar-E<gt>range( $min, $max, $step );>X<_progressbar_E_gt_range_min_max_step_>

A shorthand for L<C<minimum( )>|FLTK::ProgressBar/"minimum">,
L<C<maximum( )>|FLTK::ProgressBar/"maximum">, and
L<C<step( )>|FLTK::ProgressBar/"step">.

=for hackers xs/ProgressBar.xs line 55

=back

=head2 C<showtext>
X<showtext>

=over

=item C<$progressbar-E<gt>showtext( $show );>X<_progressbar_E_gt_showtext_show_>

Shows completition percentage inside progress widget.

=for hackers xs/ProgressBar.xs line 151

=item C<my $shown = $progressbar-E<gt>showtext( );>X<my_shown_progressbar_E_gt_showtext_>

Returns wheather or not completion percentage is displayed inside progress
widget.

=for hackers xs/ProgressBar.xs line 155

=back

=head2 C<step>
X<step>

=over

=item C<$progressbar-E<gt>step( $step );>X<_progressbar_E_gt_step_step_>

Increase bar length with given step and redraw widget. If value goes out of
L<C<minimum( )>|FLTK::ProgressBar/"minimum"> and
L<C<maximum( )>|FLTK::ProgressBar/"maximum"> bounds, it will be ignored.

=for hackers xs/ProgressBar.xs line 66

=item C<my $step = $progressbar-E<gt>step( );>X<my_step_progressbar_E_gt_step_>

Returns the bar length.

=for hackers xs/ProgressBar.xs line 72

=back

=head2 C<text_color>
X<text_color>

=over

=item C<$progressbar-E<gt>text_color( $color );>X<_progressbar_E_gt_text_color_color_>

Changes the color of text hiddien/displayed by
L<C<showtext( )>|FLTK::ProgressBar/"showtext">.

=for hackers xs/ProgressBar.xs line 172

=item C<my $color = $progressbar-E<gt>text_color( );>X<my_color_progressbar_E_gt_text_color_>

Returns the color of text hiddien/displayed by
L<C<showtext( )>|FLTK::ProgressBar/"showtext">.

=pod 

=for hackers xs/ProgressBar.xs line 177

=back

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2008-2010 by Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of
L<The Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0>.
See the F<LICENSE> file included with this distribution or
L<notes on the Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes>
for clarification.

When separated from the distribution, all original POD documentation is
covered by the
L<Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode>.
See the
L<clarification of the CCA-SA3.0|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/>.


=for git $Id: ProgressBar.xs c629eeb 2010-09-27 04:12:30Z sanko@cpan.org $

=cut
