=pod

=head1 NAME

FLTK::StatusBarGroup - Create and handle a StatusBar with minimum effort

=head1 Description

The L<FLTK::StatusBarGroup|FLTK::StatusBarGroup> is strip that can be put in
the bottom edge of a L<FLTK::Pack|FLTK::Pack> usually it contains a status
bar.

It features automatic positioning and resizing adapting to parent
L<FLTK::Group|FLTK::Group>/L<FLTK::Window|FLTK::Window>.

Only height matters when constructing a
L<FLTK::StatusBarGroup|FLTK::StatusBar>.

You can use the L<< C<set( )>|FLTK::StatusBarGroup/set >> API's to easily
print formatted text at one of the three standard position: C<left>,
C<center>, L<right>.

You can also setup an optional custom box to the incorporated texts with child
C<_box()>, by default C<FLAT_BOX> is used.

Here's some typical code you can use to create a status bar:

    my $status_bar = FLTK::StatusBarGroup->new();
    $status_bar->child_box(THIN_DOWN_BOX, FLTK::StatusBarGroup::SBAR_RIGHT());

    # ... more code ...
    # sets a right-aligned formatted text :
    $status_bar->set('8 items', FLTK::StatusBarGroup::SBAR_RIGHT());

    # sets a centered text:
    $status_bar->set('Hi', FLTK::StatusBarGroup::SBAR_CENTER());

    # ... more code ...
    # undef or 0-len text removes the text box:
    $status_bar->set('', FLTK::StatusBarGroup::SBAR_CENTER());

=head1 Functions

=head2 C<child_box>
X<child_box>

=over

=item C<$statusbargroup-E<gt>child_box( $b );>X<_statusbargroup_E_gt_child_box_b_>

Set a default box to all texts inside the status bar.

=for hackers xs/StatusBarGroup.xs line 91

=item C<$statusbargroup-E<gt>child_box( $b, $pos );>X<_statusbargroup_E_gt_child_box_b_pos_>

Set a default box to text a particular posiiton inside the statusbar.

=for hackers xs/StatusBarGroup.xs line 95

=back

=head2 C<new>
X<new>

=over

=item C<my $group = $statusbargroup-E<gt>new( $x, $y, $w, $h, $label, $begin );>X<my_group_statusbargroup_E_gt_new_x_y_w_h_label_begin_>

Constructor. C<x>, C<y>, and C<w> are ignored.

=for hackers xs/StatusBarGroup.xs line 66

=item C<my $group = $statusbargroup-E<gt>new( $height );>X<my_group_statusbargroup_E_gt_new_height_>

Constructor.

=for hackers xs/StatusBarGroup.xs line 70

=back

=head2 C<set>
X<set>

=over

=item C<$statusbargroup-E<gt>set( $t, $pos );>X<_statusbargroup_E_gt_set_t_pos_>

Set a simple string in the statusbar at a given position alignment spec.

=pod 

=for hackers xs/StatusBarGroup.xs line 108

=back

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2008-2010 by Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of
L<The Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0>.
See the F<LICENSE> file included with this distribution or
L<notes on the Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes>
for clarification.

When separated from the distribution, all original POD documentation is
covered by the
L<Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode>.
See the
L<clarification of the CCA-SA3.0|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/>.


=for git $Id: StatusBarGroup.xs 7483df2 2011-04-09 05:42:22Z sanko@cpan.org $

=cut
