=pod

=head1 NAME

FLTK::Version - Version info for FLTK

=head1 Description

Contains the version number for the FLTK library. This allows you to write
conditionally compiled code for different versions of FLTK.

C<FL_VERSION> describes the major, minor, and patch version numbers. The
integer value is the major number. One digit is used for the minor number, and
three for the "patch" number which is increased for each binary differnt
release (it can go to C<999>).

Import C<FL_VERSION>, C<FL_MAJOR_VERSION>, C<FL_MINOR_VERSION>, and
C<FL_PATCH_VERSION> constants with the C<version> tag.

=head1 Functions

=head2 C<version>
X<version>

=over

=item C<my $ver = $version-E<gt>version( );>X<my_ver_version_E_gt_version_>

Returns the value of C<FL_VERSION> that FLTK was compiled with. This can be
compared to the C<FL_VERSION> function to see if the shared library of fltk
your program linked with is up to date.

=pod 

Import this function with the C<:version> tag.

=for hackers xs/Version.xs line 40

=back

=head1 Author

Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org> - http://sankorobinson.com/

=head1 License and Legal

Copyright (C) 2008-2010 by Sanko Robinson <sanko@cpan.org>

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it under
the terms of
L<The Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_license_2_0>.
See the F<LICENSE> file included with this distribution or
L<notes on the Artistic License 2.0|http://www.perlfoundation.org/artistic_2_0_notes>
for clarification.

When separated from the distribution, all original POD documentation is
covered by the
L<Creative Commons Attribution-Share Alike 3.0 License|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/legalcode>.
See the
L<clarification of the CCA-SA3.0|http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/3.0/us/>.


=for git $Id: Version.xs c629eeb 2010-09-27 04:12:30Z sanko@cpan.org $

=cut
